[SPEAKER_01]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm Tom Turveyville.
[SPEAKER_01]: Look up Marine in the dictionary and you might just see a picture of Jim West.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, you certainly should.
[SPEAKER_01]: This former Madisonville police chief spent nearly three years as a ground fighter in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: Didn't come home until he'd been wounded three times.
[SPEAKER_01]: Jim West was not a spit and polish kind of Marine at all.
[SPEAKER_00]: He was a fighter who didn't mind bending a rule or two if it meant protecting his fellow Marine.
[SPEAKER_00]: You would go to war anytime with this Brazos Valley veteran, and you're about to find out why.
[SPEAKER_00]: Welcome, Jim West.
[SPEAKER_00]: to veterans of the valley.
[SPEAKER_01]: It is indeed an honor to have you and to know you.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's talk about your early years.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were born and raised near Muskogee, Oklahoma, and when you were just barely out of high school, you decided to join up in 1959, join the Marines.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk a little bit about that decision, why you decided to join up.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I got tired of milking cows from the folks on the dairy farm, and I went out and ventured out into the steel to work in the machine shop or whatever.
[SPEAKER_01]: learn a trade and they had the steel strike in 59 so two or three of my buddies said Wes let's just go into service well my two heroes my two cousins they had fought in Korea one came out of the Chosen Reservoir with the 1st Marine Division and one fought with the 1st Cav in the Battle of the Yellow River and he was captured and I studied these
[SPEAKER_01]: men through my aunts and uncles, and it gave me the Spree de Corps.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: I joined the Marine Corps in 1959.
[SPEAKER_01]: You told me your dad was a World War II vet, your uncles were veterans, your family worked for Douglas Aircraft.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: All the men was fighting in the war, and the grandparents took care of us on the farm, and the women, they worked at Douglas Aircraft Company, driving rivets and welding and helped the war effort.
[SPEAKER_01]: And sometimes they brought some German prisoners out to work on the farms to help while the men were fighting.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that gave me an understanding of what my country is all about.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: You said your dad sent you a toy B-17 bomber and you got to play with that and that sort of gave you the itch also, right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: He sent that back from England.
[SPEAKER_01]: First duty station was in Hawaii, and this was 1959, really, before a lot of people had heard of what was going on in Southeast Asia or Vietnam or Laos or any of those countries, at least people in the United States.
[SPEAKER_01]: So when you first started out, you were over in the Pacific area.
[SPEAKER_01]: I know you spent some time in Okinawa and Borneo.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about sort of the days before Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I got an assignment to Hawaii for three years, and everybody in my
[SPEAKER_01]: Graduating Mattoon got a little upset because everybody says, well, that's one of the greatest places to have a good time.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then all at once, we got a, I guess you'd call scuttlebutt that there was something happening over in Southeast Asia, especially Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we was not told that we had advisors already in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they changed my orders to Okinawa.
[SPEAKER_01]: I went into anti-tank weapons section, and from there we made landings in the Philippines, went to North Barneo where they had an insurrection of Indonesian rebels.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're kind of messing with the Dutch colony, so they sent us there with the Australian and British Royal Marines, and we scared them back up in the mountains and stayed there for about almost a month and a month and a half.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that was called the Osito Pack.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it's kind of like the NATO PAC, but it's called CETO PAC.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had certain Oriental nations there that was combined in our effort to keep communism kind of at bay.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then we slowly got scuttlebutt that the Vietnam was starting to turn into a crisis.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: Due to we had Marine and Army and Special Forces in there as advisors and
[SPEAKER_01]: I felt the feeling that we was going to have trouble.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the Marines are always first to fight.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're the presidents on.
[SPEAKER_01]: Some people call us the presidents Doberman Pinchers, and he's success on them.
[SPEAKER_01]: When anything in America has trouble with our freedom, our own lives, whatever, to help other people that want to be free.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then the Chinese started shelling the island of Kamui, which is Taiwan.
[SPEAKER_01]: long-range artillery so we had a FMF pack fleet marine force we went up there and cruised around a little bit to let China know that if they tried to invade we would protect the island of Formosa which everybody calls Taiwan because we had interest in that as a kind of a territorial.
[SPEAKER_01]: After the Korean War that's the people who enjoyed the American way of life moved to Taiwan and
[SPEAKER_01]: Communists took over the main island.
[SPEAKER_00]: I want to get you to Vietnam in a little bit, but before Vietnam, I guess in 1962 or so, there was a Cuban crisis.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_00]: And I know that you were involved in the state of Florida in that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk a little bit about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I had my 15-month tour in the Orient, and all at once I got orders to report down in Florida.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it was a base that required a...
[SPEAKER_01]: top secret clearance.
[SPEAKER_01]: So the unbecoming of me being a combat man, and I love my grunt attitude, or what are you going to call it, Marine Corps, I went down there and received a top secret clearance.
[SPEAKER_01]: And my mother wrote me a letter and said, son, how come the Navy intelligence people has come to my house, our house,
[SPEAKER_01]: and wanted to know if you had any records of school records, report cards.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, my blessed mother kept them in an old cedar chest.
[SPEAKER_01]: So she let them have them and they went and talked to some of my school teachers and everything before I knew it, I had a top secret clearance.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then we had the nuclear weapon in the film being taken at Cuba, flying in.
[SPEAKER_01]: We protected that and took care of that in the security part, which was not really being able to explain some of that stuff.
[SPEAKER_01]: 1963 or thereabouts, you'd been in for four years, and you had a decision to make, whether you were going to go back to Oklahoma and get a job, or whether you were going to stay in the Marines.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that decision to stay.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, my four years was up, and I was extended a year by President Kennedy for the Cuban crisis, and that's coming up 15 days prior to getting out on five years.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was going to be a...
[SPEAKER_01]: Get in school of the Highway Patrol, Oklahoma Highway Patrol, because they were kind of a breed of their own.
[SPEAKER_01]: A lot of former Marines and Special Forces.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I enjoyed them because I had a young man that was a good friend of mine that played baseball, football with me, that became a Highway Patrolman.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I'd see him when I came home on leave.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I used to ride with him.
[SPEAKER_01]: And my sheriff, Dave Faulkner, would debutize me and take me sometimes with him.
[SPEAKER_01]: when I was on home and on leave.
[SPEAKER_01]: So law enforcement started kind of coming through my mind and my feelings about that's my job, to protect and serve, even in the Marine Corps or back in the States.
[SPEAKER_01]: But my major and my sergeant major, who I played tennis with my major,
[SPEAKER_01]: in Pensacola, Florida and other places when we had a chance and they took me out and we got a little social inebriated at a golf course and I shipped over for six years.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I become a Marine and full hearted and I felt why should I give up five years of my life when I knew the job and I enjoyed it and it made me feel good to be kind of doing a job for my country and our way of life.
[SPEAKER_01]: They sent me to drill instructor school.
[SPEAKER_01]: But my shipping over, I wanted to go to guerrilla warfare school because I knew something was going to happen in the back of my mind in Southeast Asia.
[SPEAKER_01]: I felt it come over me.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't know if it was just something that I read about or whatever.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I remember friends of mine I was serving with who was in Cuba when Castro took over in 59.
[SPEAKER_01]: when the Marines were down there and they were told not to go on liberty because Castro took over and Batista flew out to Spain.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then I was assigned to the drilling truck to school.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was there, went through the school.
[SPEAKER_01]: But yet my feelings was I didn't want to instruct Marines.
[SPEAKER_01]: I wanted to fight.
[SPEAKER_01]: I wanted to be in the front lines as most Marines, you know, you're first to fight.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they sent me to Europe.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I went over there with the Fleet and Marine Force.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we landed in Palma, Spain, Madrid, Spain, Genoa, Italy, Toulon, France.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was on a flagship with a Commodore and his Fleet Admiral on the USS Sanctuary.
[SPEAKER_01]: Felt like then I wasn't a seagulling Marine.
[SPEAKER_01]: They call us Leathernecks because we wore the old leather back in the 1700s.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I was more of a hard-nosed Marine.
[SPEAKER_01]: I felt it inside of me.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they sent me to the Drill Warfare School, come back, and I went through Fort Sherman, Panama Canal, Green Berets, where I had instructors.
[SPEAKER_01]: And from there, I went to Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I had this talent.
[SPEAKER_01]: that I knew what enemy we was going to fight because our country never really understood guerrilla warfare, I don't believe.
[SPEAKER_01]: But the Marines fought in the Banana Wars in Cuba way back in the 1920s or 30s or whatever.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I could read that history, also going through the training.
[SPEAKER_00]: You spent some two and a half years in Vietnam, and as we said from the outset, you were seriously wounded three times.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: You earned three Purple Hearts.
[SPEAKER_01]: You took two of them, I believe.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: I did not want my mother to suffer.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that if you can again.
[SPEAKER_01]: You talked about that the other day.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I had a corpsman I was hit with shrapnel in the arms, and I said, Doc, don't you ever give me another Purple Heart unless I'm in a body bag because my mother,
[SPEAKER_01]: I felt more about her than I did myself.
[SPEAKER_01]: So he agreed with me.
[SPEAKER_01]: He looked at me one time and that's all he needed to say.
[SPEAKER_01]: You didn't want that car to pull up in front of your mama's house again.
[SPEAKER_01]: No, I can understand that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about when you were wounded, the first time that you were wounded.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, the first time I was wounded, we had Viet Cong hitting convoys.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was at High Van Pass, just about
[SPEAKER_01]: Oh, 60 miles from Da Nang on Route 1 going to Way City.
[SPEAKER_01]: And a lot of the convoys was coming through there was Arvin and the local VC was hitting them pretty bad, ambushing them.
[SPEAKER_01]: A friend of mine, Sergeant Kent, was down at the Esso plant where Brown and Root opened it back up after the French shut it down.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he had a
[SPEAKER_01]: PF, we call PFs, Preventional Forces, who were brought into the South Vietnamese Army as security in villages.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, he had that attachment with four Marines.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was killed that night.
[SPEAKER_01]: They ambushed him, and he was talking to me on the radio, and I was farther up up the hill, but I could not go to help him.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he was shot twice in the back, and while he was still talking to me on the radio.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I knew then something was going to happen up in our area.
[SPEAKER_01]: And one day I come back and we had a kind of a chow hall there with Hawk missile sites just above us and we had their protection.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we also had the guard dogs running through the fence at nighttime helping us.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the Viet Cong come out on the road and knocked out three
[SPEAKER_01]: South Vietnamese trucks with RPG rounds and machine guns.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I had a 50 up there on the hill, so I cut down on the 50 on them.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the Arvin lieutenant and warrant officer was hollering at me.
[SPEAKER_01]: I mean, I couldn't hear them hollering, but they was waving their hand to help them.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I just turned the 50 on them, the enemy.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they presented me with the Vietnamese cross of Gallandry with POM.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then when we went down there to check them, we found eight Arvinds dead and three wounded.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we got them medevaced.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they gave me an honor over it, which to me, I was just doing my job.
[SPEAKER_00]: You weren't fighting for medals?
[SPEAKER_01]: No, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was fighting for their way of life and ours to be free.
[SPEAKER_01]: Exactly.
[SPEAKER_00]: We're going to take a pause here and take a look at some pictures that you gave us.
[SPEAKER_00]: from your time in Vietnam and even afterwards.
[SPEAKER_00]: We'll go ahead and go to those and let you talk about each one of them, some photographs.
[SPEAKER_00]: I think we're ready to go right now.
[SPEAKER_00]: This is a photograph that I took a photograph of.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about what we're looking at there.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's taken right outside of Da Nang there, what they call Happy Valley or Arizona Territory.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I was 26 years old there.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was a platoon sergeant of Alpha Company, 1st Battalion, 3rd Marines.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that's what we tried to help the South Vietnamese, where the Vietcon come at night and they threaten to kill the women and children if they didn't fight for them.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we tried to protect them.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're in the hearts and minds of the Vietnamese because Charlie, the VC, always come in and took part of their food or took ransom from them.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we guarded them and I had a combat photographer and he took that picture.
[SPEAKER_00]: And put it together.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I had it developed in Okinawa, and I pulled back there to pick up new replacements.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, let's move on to the next one.
[SPEAKER_00]: This is a picture that's shown a little wear and tear over the year, but there's a Marine West.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's a machine gun that was involved in saving a few Marines' lives in Vietnam, and a combat photographer wanted to take that picture.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that was taken on the USS Okinawa, LPH landing platform, HILO, that was a World War II
[SPEAKER_01]: Aircraft carrier for prop planes.
[SPEAKER_01]: So he gave me a copy of it.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that's when I was still pretty good and strong.
[SPEAKER_01]: When I'd been shot up too bad or busted up.
[SPEAKER_01]: All right.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's what we call in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: They had Catholic little churches.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you can see most of the bullet holes around there.
[SPEAKER_01]: That took us about a week to clear that out.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I told my men to make me some coffee.
[SPEAKER_01]: If you look over there to the left, you can see where they're brewing me some Hobo Joe.
[SPEAKER_01]: If nobody's ever had any Hobo Joe, it's coffee grounds we'd get from the artillery people.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'd take C4 explosives and burn a little of it, and it'd boil the water in a flash.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'd drop one hand of coffee in it, and then one little shot of cold water, and the grounds went to the bottom, and we had coffee, Hobo Joe.
[SPEAKER_01]: So that's what these other men are doing, Marines.
[SPEAKER_01]: Very resourceful.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the combat photographer wanted to take a snapshot of me.
[SPEAKER_01]: He says, I look like G.I.
[SPEAKER_01]: Joe.
[SPEAKER_01]: Got the camouflage going.
[SPEAKER_01]: I had a cigar in my mouth.
[SPEAKER_01]: I guess playing the role.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: Talk about this.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, this is when I got inventory up on my feet and my commanding general, General English, asked me what job I'd like to have until my next surgery.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he said, Marine liaison.
[SPEAKER_01]: I said, yes, sir, I'll take it.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then were my three clerk typists.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we went up to a young man who was having a real bad problem with his life because he was paralyzed from the waist down.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we'd heard word that he might have tried to attempt something on his life because his fiancée come to see him, she never came back.
[SPEAKER_01]: I guess it was due to his wounds.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we were trying to build him back up into understanding, and finally when he was able to get in the wheelchair, we took him out and had a beer with him.
[SPEAKER_00]: We're going to talk about that aspect of your career a little bit later.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the girls enjoyed going up there and talking to him and building his spirit back up.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: And there, when I was working at Marine Liaison, the commanding commandant of the Marine Corps, he came in to visit us.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he had a little talk with us.
[SPEAKER_01]: And there's some of the officers he's checking there that flew the F-4 Phantoms that were hit and wounded in the arms and legs from shrapnel artillery.
[SPEAKER_01]: or anti-tank guns or whatever they used to knock them down.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the officers had the quarters up at the sixth floor and we took care of them, made sure they got their pay and whatever till they recovered.
[SPEAKER_01]: And most of the officers wanted to run around with us grunts and drank with us.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they'd like to go down to staff club and have a hoorah with us because they knew that the grunts were down there really fighting.
[SPEAKER_01]: You can see your left hand there, this bandage.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm still working on it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Including this picture.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's President Kennedy.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was an MP at the time, and I got the chance to kind of guard the crowd while he made his tour through.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that was the last time he was able to walk the grounds.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay, let's move on.
[SPEAKER_00]: There's a very familiar figure on the left side of that photo, and you're in the middle talking about San Diego, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: I had the Naval Hospital, the Admiral, wanted me to present the GI Joe Award to Bob Hope.
[SPEAKER_01]: But due to my wounds there, I could not handle, at the time, my left hand.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we talked to Sergeant Franson.
[SPEAKER_01]: that he'd do it and uh there was let's see i think four of us there that some of them were just the survivors out of the whole platoon the whole platoon was wiped out but the dock there and a corpsman and a few other ones right so they was given that at padre island in san diego and the owner of padre ball team walked up and gave me 700 free tickets for all the wounded marines to go to the ball
[SPEAKER_01]: He gave me a press tag where I could set up with the press and all that.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I was in a lot of pain then.
[SPEAKER_01]: I didn't participate in a lot of that stuff.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's a great picture.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, I think we've got, there's the wrestling.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's when I, A&M coach there, went to A&M, and he was a captain in the Marines, and he was a coach, and that's my lieutenant I'm getting ready to slam on the mat.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I had a pretty good time of keeping a,
[SPEAKER_01]: heavyweight championship going for a while there until I said that was enough.
[SPEAKER_01]: My first sergeant didn't like jockstrapers.
[SPEAKER_01]: He wanted us out in the field training all the time instead of playing what you call the high school games or the kind of stuff.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was known in World War II and Korean vet.
[SPEAKER_00]: This is later on when you were at Madisonville?
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's my good buddy there next to President Bush who was running for governor the second time.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was a county judge down in Beeville, and he was my youngest Marine in my battalion in Vietnam, and he was wounded, shot through both hips and lost six foot of his intestines, and they built him hips back up, and they can do miracles nowadays.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we was together in a hospital down in Corpus Christi Naval Hospital.
[SPEAKER_01]: So he got up on his feet, made county judge, and George W. Bush come down there to the Big Kings Ranch,
[SPEAKER_01]: And Beeville and all them people, we had 3,000 people there.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we had the big Texas barbecue, my first introduction to a Texas barbecue.
[SPEAKER_01]: And George W. wanted to shake hands with me and talk to me a little bit.
[SPEAKER_01]: He asked me what he should do to win the governorship.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I said, sir, there's an old saying about the Marine Corps.
[SPEAKER_01]: You promise three things and do them, you'll survive.
[SPEAKER_01]: But if you promise 15 or 20 and can't accomplish them, you're lost.
[SPEAKER_01]: So that's a word I had to say to him.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's a good advice.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_01]: And there's all the badges I wore.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's one badge I don't have there.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's assistant chief badge because I never got it back from the city.
[SPEAKER_01]: But there's a patrolman, sergeant, chief, deputy, and chief constable, chief deputy constable.
[SPEAKER_00]: And this was your law enforcement in Madison County was really your career up until just a few months ago.
[SPEAKER_01]: 23 and a half years.
[SPEAKER_01]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's go back to Vietnam, if we can.
[SPEAKER_01]: I want to talk after your first injury, when you were first wounded.
[SPEAKER_01]: You got the word that your unit was moving out and wanted to know whether you were going to stay in the hospital or whether you were going to go.
[SPEAKER_01]: And contrary to the doctor's orders, you went.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: I was in the Charlie Med.
[SPEAKER_01]: We call it just B Med or Battalion Med.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we call it Charlie Med just for Marine Corps jargon.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the doctor told me, he says, you now, you're going to stay in your bed.
[SPEAKER_01]: You've got a drain in your leg from the wound.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'll give you a chit for two beers at the little old club that the Vietnamese, we gave them see ration to make us.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I had my two beers and the old sergeant was running it.
[SPEAKER_01]: I said, no, two beers for a platoon sergeant ain't enough.
[SPEAKER_01]: I need at least four.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I'd have four beers.
[SPEAKER_01]: So...
[SPEAKER_01]: I got on the horn.
[SPEAKER_01]: I got the word that my unit was moving up to Kason, and I didn't want to be left behind because I'd be transferred over to another unit.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I got on the Lima Lima line, cranked it, and got to my what we call a lamb line.
[SPEAKER_01]: Got a hold of my first sergeant and my skipper, captain, said, send your jeep and come get me.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the Jeep showed up about an hour, 30 minutes, 40 minutes, or whatever.
[SPEAKER_01]: I didn't keep time on that.
[SPEAKER_01]: And he showed up, and I just got in the Jeep, and my doctor, Lieutenant Commander, hollered, I'll court-martial you, Marine.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm not responsible if you lose that leg.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I said, Lieutenant Commander, what are you going to do, shave my head and give me another tour of duty?
[SPEAKER_01]: And I told the driver to take off.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you saluted him?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I said, all due respect to your title and your rank, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I had my corpsman pull out a little bit of the drain and cut it off so it healed from the inside out.
[SPEAKER_01]: Believe it or not, we're starting to get low on time, but I want to talk about the last time that you were wounded, wounded in the shoulder, and that's wounds that you still deal with today.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: We landed up at the Gill Inn and Conti Inn by the DMZ.
[SPEAKER_01]: We call it the McNamara Line because we had a barbed wire all across it in towers.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well,
[SPEAKER_01]: North Vietnamese B-24th B Division moved in and they had overrun Bravo 1-9.
[SPEAKER_01]: And if you ever heard of Bravo 1-9, you read it.
[SPEAKER_01]: They call it the Death Battalion because they lost so many people.
[SPEAKER_01]: But they killed Ho Chi Minh's son.
[SPEAKER_01]: So the word came out to North Vietnamese to always find out where Bravo Company 1-9 was and try to annihilate them because of that
[SPEAKER_01]: what they did and they killed O.C.
[SPEAKER_01]: Bent's son.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well we went up there to help them and the second platoon landed in Hilo area Sparrow and we come in Hilo area Canary and they had almost been overrun completely.
[SPEAKER_01]: So they were wearing marine flight jackets and marine helmets to try to keep us from distinguishing them from our men.
[SPEAKER_01]: And all at once, machine gun opened up, and they rushed us, and it was just slowly trying to take out as many as they could.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I got my platoon down, and I got hit in the arm, three rounds in the pack, one through a canteen, one in a magazine pouch, and it exploded.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it's like something picked me up and just shook me like firecrackers going off in me.
[SPEAKER_01]: Jim, this has gone way too quickly, but I know that from there you had to leave Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_01]: You went to San Diego.
[SPEAKER_01]: We talked a little bit about how you were a liaison with other Marines.
[SPEAKER_01]: Your career continued as you were even a contestant on the dating game.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you met many a Hollywood star.
[SPEAKER_01]: I met Jonathan Winters, Don DeFord, Charlton Heston, who was the president of the Theater Guild.
[SPEAKER_01]: David Jensen.
[SPEAKER_01]: Not only did you meet them, but the honor was for them to meet you.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was motivation.
[SPEAKER_01]: And it's our honor to meet you, too.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I'm sorry that we are out of time.
[SPEAKER_01]: But thank you, Jim West, for your service.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's my pleasure.
[SPEAKER_01]: Thank you.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm young and strong.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'll be 66 this year.
[SPEAKER_01]: Jim West and his wife, Mary Beth, live in rural Madison County, where family pictures hang on the wall and memories of his service remain pretty clear.
[SPEAKER_00]: If it weren't for those wounds he suffered 30 years ago, he says that even at the age of 66, he'd volunteer to fight in Iraq for his country and the freedoms we all enjoy.
[SPEAKER_00]: We salute Jim West for his military service and his civil service, and we thank all veterans, and thanks to our underwriter, First National Bank.
[SPEAKER_00]: You can read other stories of veterans in the Brazos Valley in Brazos Valley Heroes each Sunday in the Eagle.
[SPEAKER_00]: For Jim West, I'm Tom Turbeville.
[SPEAKER_00]: We'll see you next time on Veterans of the Valley.
Amen.